PAGE 1
Review: Interpretable Multivariate Conformal Prediction with Fast
Transductive Standardization
1 Summary
The paper introduces a conformal approach to construct hyper-rectangular prediction sets for mul-
tivariate responses. Transductively Standardized Conformal Prediction (TSCP) scales the residuals
of each output dimension to form the scores, using a transductive approach to calculate the mean
and standard deviation of the residuals as to not waste data. A global worst-case approach is
introduced, which is then improved upon by using a data-driven partition of the outcome space to
ensure tighter prediction sets. The resulting prediction sets have the standard lower-bound confor-
mal coverage guarantee, while maintaining reasonably small volumes compared to other methods.
While the paper introduces some interesting ideas and is theoretically sound, it requires additional
comparisons and some additions and clarifications.
2 Major Comments
•In section 1.2 you discuss that Sampson and Chan (2024) require an additional independent
dataset. This is true for their Point CHR method, but not for their quantile regression
approach (CQHR).
•After Theorem 1 you discuss that the overall coverage cannot be used to determine if the
dimension-specific coverage is tight. However, both the real data analyses and simulation
studies lack dimension-specific comparisons (e.g., comparing prediction interval lengths or
listing marginal coverages across the 10 dimensions in the first simulation study for TSCP).
Adding these to your numerical comparisons would improve them greatly.
•In section 3.4.4 it is stated: “Under the regularity conditionY h ̸=∅, which can be immedi-
ately verified and typically holds in practice...” How often did this not hold in the real data
experiments, if at all?
•The numerical studies do not include a comparison with CQHR from Sampson and Chan
(2024), which performed better than Point CHR in their paper.
•The numerical studies and lit review also fail to compare TSCP with any of the approaches
fromMulti-Modal Conformal Prediction Regions with Simple Structures by Optimizing Convex
Shape Templates(Tumu et al. 2024), which can be used to form convex (including hyper-
rectangular) prediction regions.
•Standardizing the residuals to be used as scores is done to address heterogeneity across di-
mensions. How does it work if some, but not all, dimensions have heteroskedastic errors? A
simulation demonstrating this would make the numerical experiments more interesting.
1

PAGE 2
•Above equation 9, you state one possible score is the absolute value of CQR. It seems like
this score would lead to a larger adjustment than the standard CQR score, which cannot be
used because of Assumption 1. Is that not the case? You mentioned earlier in the paper
that a constant could be added to the standard CQR scores so they are non-negative, and
not overly conservative when the quantile regression coverage is conservative. Would it not
be beneficial to include this score instead of the absolute value of the CQR score, so that
practitioners don’t use an overly conservative approach? Along the same line, it would be
nice to know how to choose such a constant in practice, so that this approach could be used
with quantile regression.
3 Minor Comments
•In Figure 1 it would be a nice addition to include the marginal coverage rates for the rightmost
image. Making the marginal coverages be different (e.g., 92% and 93%) would also highlight
early on that the marginal dimension coverages need not be the same.
•In section 2.5 when discussing the oracle prediction set your second claim is: “it tends to
be uniformly tight across all output dimensions, because it operates with residuals whose
components are all on the same scale”. Does tight here refer to the marginal coverage, or
something else? If it is the coverage, would the error distribution shapes need to be the same
for this to be true?
•In section 3.4.4, after you introduceL j, you discuss whatL 1 andL 2 are with respect to
Figure 2. AddingL 1 andL 2 to the margins (or with a dashed line across the plot) would be
a helpful visualization.
•The authors discuss the computational cost of using TSCP as they introduce it. There are
some plots in the appendices which compare the computational cost. They should either add
a note in the numerical studies that computational cost comparisons can be found in the
appendix, or (better) include similar plots in the main text.
•In the stock data analysis, the volume of Point CHR is infinite because of the size of the
training/calibration sets along with the coverage rate. One would not split their data in such
a way in practice, which should be stated. The comparison does make the point that Point
CHR does not use the data as efficiently, but it should be clarified that the infinite prediction
sets are caused by how small the last calibration set size is, and not the method.
•Readability would be improved if vectors were bolded while scalars were not.
2